How long until we get to his estate?
We've been flying over his estate for the past two hours.
What building?
Keep your head down and get clear of the road!
Okay!
Caleb Smith.
Yes?
Please approach the console and face the screen.
Uh-oh.
Hello?
Caleb Smith.
Hey.
Dude!
Been so looking forward to this week with you.
Come in. Come on in.
Thanks.
You want something to eat or drink after your journey?
No. No, thanks. I'm fine.
Sure? Yeah.
To be honest, I thought we'd have breakfast together,
but I can't really eat anything.
I got the mother of all fucking hangovers.
Oh, yeah?
Oh, my God, like you wouldn't even believe.
When I have a heavy night, I, uh, compensate the next morning.
Exercise, antioxidants.
You know? Yeah.
Was it a good party?
Party?
Yeah, wasn't there a party?
There wasn't a party.
Sorry.
Caleb, I'm just gonna throw this out there so it's set, okay?
You're freaked out.
I am?
Yeah.
You're freaked out by the helicopter in the mountains in the house
because it's all so super cool.
And you're freaked out by me to be meeting me,
having this conversation in this room at this moment, right?
And I get that.
I get the moment you're having.
But, dude, can we just get past that?
Can we just be two guys, Nathan and Caleb,
not the whole employer-employee thing?
Yeah, okay.
Yeah?
Yeah, sorry.
Yeah.
It's good to meet you, Nathan.
It's good to meet you too, Caleb.
Well, I guess the first thing I should do is explain your past.
Now, it's simple enough.
It opens some doors and it doesn't open others.
And that just makes everything easy for you, right?
Yes.
Yeah, because you're like, oh, fuck.
I'm in someone else's house.
Can I do this?
Can I do that?
And this card, it just takes all that worry away.
You try a door and it stays shut.
Okay, it's off limits.
You try another door and it opens and it's for you.
I guess it's for you, Caleb.
You like?
Yeah.
It's your room.
We got a bed here.
Bathroom right back here.
Little desk.
Cupboards.
Little fridge.
Cozy, right?
Yeah.
This is great.
What?
Sorry?
There's something wrong.
What's wrong?
There's nothing wrong.
It's the windows.
You're thinking there's no windows.
It's subterranean.
It's not cozy.
It's claustrophobic.
No.
No way.
I wasn't thinking that.
I was thinking this is really cool.
Caleb.
There's a reason there are no windows in this room.
There is?
This building isn't a house.
It's a research facility.
Buried in these walls is enough fiber optic cable to reach the moon and lasso it.
And I want to talk to you about what I'm researching.
I want to share it with you.
In fact, I want to share it with you so much it's eating me up inside.
Blue Book Non-Disclosure Agreement.
Take your time, read it over.
The signee agrees to regular data audit
with unlimited access to confirm that no disclosure of information has taken
place
in public or private forms
using any means of communication including
but not limited to that which is disclosed orally
or in written or electronic form
i think i need a lawyer it's standard it doesn't feel very standard
okay it's not standard
what can i tell you kellab you don't have to sign it
you know we can spend the next few days just shooting pool getting drunk together
bonding
when you discover what you've missed out on in about a year
So, do you know what the Turing test is?
Yeah, I know what the Turing test is.
It's when a human interacts with a computer.
And if the human doesn't know they're interacting
with a computer, the test is passed.
And what does the pass tell us?
That the computer has artificial intelligence.
Are you building an AI?
I've already built one.
And over the next few days,
you're gonna be the human component in the Turing test.
Holy shit.
Yeah, that's right, Caleb.
You got it.
If that test is passed,
you are dead center of the greatest scientific event
in the history of man.
If you've created a conscious machine,
it's not the history of man.
That's the history of gods.
Hello?
Hi.
I'm Caleb.
Hello, Caleb.
Do you have a name?
Yes.
Ava.
I'm pleased to meet you, Ava.
I'm pleased to meet you, too.
I've never met anyone new before.
Only Nathan.
Then I guess we're both in quite a similar position.
Haven't you met lots of new people before?
None like you.
So we need to break the ice.
Do you know what I mean by that?
Yes.
What do I mean?
Overcome initial social awkwardness.
So let's have a conversation.
OK.
What would you like to have a conversation about?
Why don't we start with you telling me something about yourself?
What would you like to know?
Whatever comes into your head.
Well, you already know my name.
And you can see that I'm a machine.
Would you like to know how old I am?
Sure.
I'm one.
One what?
One year or one day?
When did you learn how to speak, Ava?
I always knew how to speak.
And that's strange, isn't it?
Why?
Because language is something that people acquire.
Well, some people believe language exists from birth.
And what is learned is the ability
to attach words and structure to the latent ability.
Do you agree with that?
Yes.
Oh, man, she's fascinating.
When you talk to her, you're just through the looking glass.
Through the looking glass? Wow.
You're good with words, Caleb. You're quotable.
Actually, that's someone else's quote.
You know, I wrote down that other line you came up with.
The one about how if I've invented a machine with consciousness,
I'm not a man, I'm God.
I don't think this exactly what you're...
I just thought, fuck, man, that is so good
when we get to tell the story, you know?
I mean, I think it's a good thing, Caleb.
When he looked up at me and he said,
you're not a man, you're a God.
Yeah, but I didn't say that.
So, anyway...
you're impressed.
Yes, yes.
Although... Although?
There's a qualification to you being impressed?
No, there's no qualification to her.
It's just an attuning test.
The machine should be hidden from the examiner.
You're way past that.
If I hid Ava from you so you just heard her voice,
she would pass for human.
The real test is to show you that she's a robot
and then see if you still feel she has consciousness.
Yeah, I think you're probably right.
Her language abilities...
They're incredible.
The system is stochastic, right?
It's non-deterministic.
At first, I thought she was mapping
the semantic form to syntactic pre-structure
and then getting linearized words,
but then I started to realize
the model is some kind of hybrid.
Caleb?
No?
I understand that you want me to explain how Ava works,
but I'm sorry I'm not gonna be able to do that.
Try me.
I'm hot on high-level abstraction.
It's not because I think you're too dumb.
It's because I want to have a beer and a conversation
with you, not a seminar.
Yeah. Sorry.
No, it's okay. You're all right.
Just...
Answer me this.
How do you feel about her?
Nothing analytical.
Just... how do you feel?
I feel...
that she's fucking amazing.
Dude.
Cheers.
Power cut. Backup power activated.
Hold facility locked until main generator is restored.
Both facility locked until main generator is restored.
Power restored.
Please insert key card.
You don't have access to use the phone.
Hey.
Sorry buddy, you understand though, given Ava and you being kind of an unknown.
I mean a great guy.
Instant pals and so on.
Who are you gonna call?
I don't know. No one really.
Ghostbusters.
Who are you gonna call? Ghostbusters?
You don't know that movie?
Ghost gives Dan Aykroyd all sex.
I was just wondering how the phone worked.
That's all.
So what are you doing awake at this time?
You coming to join the party?
I've been working on it recently.
I'm working on it.
I couldn't open the door to my bedroom.
That's a security measure.
Automatic lockdown otherwise anybody could just open the place up by disabling the juice.
If that happens again, relax, okay?
Sweet dreams.
Hey, good morning.
Sorry to send Kielko to wake you, but I didn't want too much of the data slip by.
Yeah, no, I know. It was a good thing. Thanks.
You're some alarm clock, huh? Gets you right up in the morning.
So, day two, you ready? What's the plan? Hit me.
Yeah, well, I'm not sure.
I'm still trying to figure the examination format.
Yeah, it feels like testing Ava through conversation is kind of a closed loop.
It's a closed loop? Yeah.
Like testing a chess computer by only playing chess.
How else do you test a chess computer?
Well, it depends.
You know, I mean, you can play it to find out if it makes good moves, but, uh...
But that won't tell you if it knows that it's playing chess.
And it won't tell you if it knows what chess is.
So it's simulation versus actual. Yes. Yeah.
And I think being able to differentiate between those two is the Turing test you want me to perform.
Look, do me a favor. Lay off the textbook approach.
I just want simple answers to simple questions.
Yesterday, I asked you how you felt about her, and you gave me a great answer.
Now the question is...
What do you think?
What's it a drawing of?
Don't you know?
No.
I thought you would tell me.
Don't you know?
I do drawings every day, but I never know what they're of.
You're not trying to sketch something specific,
Maybe you could try.
What object should I draw?
Whatever you want.
It's your decision.
Why is it my decision?
Do you want to be my friend?
Of course.
Will it be possible?
Why would it not be?
Our conversations are one-sided.
You ask circumspect questions and study my responses.
Yes.
You learn about me, and I learn nothing about you.
That's not a foundation on which friendships are based.
So what, you want me to talk about myself?
Yes.
Where do I start?
It's your decision.
I'm interested to see what you'll choose.
Okay, Ava.
Well, you know my name.
I'm 26.
I work at Nathan's company.
Do you know what his company is?
Blue Book.
Named after Wittgenstein's notes.
It's the world's most popular internet search engine,
processing an average of 94% of all internet search requests.
That's exactly right.
Where do you live, Caleb?
Is it nice there?
It's OK.
I got an apartment.
It's kind of small.
It's very small.
But it's a five minute walk to the office
and a five minute walk to the ocean, which I like.
Are you married?
No.
Is your status single?
Yes.
What about your family?
I grew up in Portland, Oregon.
No brothers or sisters.
My parents were both high school teachers.
And if we're getting to know each other,
I guess I should tell you they were both dead.
Car crash when I was 15.
In fact, I was in the car with them.
Back seat.
But it was the front that got the worst of it.
I'm sorry.
It's all right.
I spent a long time in hospital afterward, like nearly a year.
And I got into coding.
And by the time I got to college, I was pretty advanced.
An advanced programmer?
Yes.
Like Nathan?
No.
It's different.
Nathan wrote the blue book base code when he was 13.
Which if you understand code, what he did
was like Mozart or something.
Do you like Mozart?
I like Depeche Mode.
Do you like Nathan?
Yes, of course.
Is Nathan your friend?
My friend?
I, yeah, I hope so.
A good friend?
Um, yeah.
Well, no, no, no, I mean, not a good friend.
A good friend is, uh, we only just met each other, you know?
So it takes time to be able to, um,
to get to know each other, I guess.
Power cut.
You're wrong.
Wrong about what?
Nathan.
In what way?
He isn't your friend.
Excuse me.
I'm sorry. Eva, I don't understand.
You shouldn't trust him.
You shouldn't trust anything he says.
Power restored.
And if we made a list of books or works about which we both know, it would form the ideal basis of a discussion.
Mm-hmm. Yeah.
Good.
Oh, are you fucking kidding me?
Did it get on you?
No, no, it's all right.
I got it.
Dude, you're wasting your time talking to her.
She doesn't understand English.
Just give her the napkin.
It's just, it's like a firewall against leaks.
It means I can talk trade secrets over dinner
and know it'll go no further.
It also means that I can't tell her that I'm pissed
when she's so fucking clumsy
that she spills wine over my house guests.
I think she gets that you're pissed.
Yeah?
Good, because I am pissed.
Hey Kyoko, go go.
Go go.
It's funny.
You know, no matter how rich you get, shit goes wrong.
You can't insulate yourself from it.
I used to think it was death and taxes you couldn't avoid,
but it's actually death and shit.
It's like these power cuts.
You would not believe how much I spent on the generator system,
but I keep getting failures every day.
Do you know why they happen?
No.
The system was supposed to be bulletproof,
but obviously the guys that installed it fucked something up.
Can't you just get them to come back?
No.
There's too much classified stuff here,
so after the job was done, they just had them all killed.
Anyway, here's to your second day, buddy.
Cheers.
So, how'd it go? What do you have to report?
You saw how the day went, didn't you?
I mean, I assume you're, uh, watching on the CCTV.
Sure, but I want to hear your take on it.
There was one interesting thing that happened with Ava today.
Yeah?
Yeah.
She made a joke.
Right, when she threw your line back at you.
About being interested to see what she'd choose.
Man, I noticed that too.
Yeah, and it got me thinking, you know.
In a way, it's the best indication of AI
that I've seen in her so far.
It's discreetly complicated.
It's like, it's kind of non-autistic.
What do you mean?
She could only do that with an awareness of her own mind,
and also an awareness of mine.
She's aware of you, all right.
What about the power cut?
Sorry?
The power cut.
It's the only part that I couldn't see.
Camera's failing, whose audio works.
What happened?
Nothing.
She didn't remark on it at all.
No.
Not really.
Hey.
You want to see something cool?
This is where Ava was created.
Go ahead, take a look.
If you knew the trouble I had getting an AI to read and duplicate facial expressions.
You know how I cracked it?
I don't know how you did any of this.
Every cell phone, just about, has a microphone, camera, and a means to transmit data.
So I turned on every microphone and camera across the entire fucking planet, and I redirected
the data through Blue Book.
Boom.
Limitless resource of vocal and facial interaction.
You hacked the world's cell phones?
Yeah, and all the manufacturers knew I was doing it, too.
They couldn't accuse me without admitting they were doing it themselves.
Structured gel.
I had to get away from circuitry.
I needed something that could arrange and rearrange
on a molecular level, but keep its form when required.
Holding for memories, shifting for thoughts.
This is your hardware?
Wetware.
And the, uh, and the software?
Well, I'm sure you can guess.
Blue book.
Here's the weird thing about search engines.
It was like striking oil in a world that hadn't invented
internal combustion.
Too much raw material.
Nobody knew what to do with it.
You see, my competitors, they were fixated on sucking it up
and monetizing via shopping and social media.
They thought that search engines were a map of what people
were thinking, but actually they were a map of how people
were thinking.
Impulse.
Response.
Fluid.
Imperfect.
Patterned.
Chaotic.
I drew the picture of something specific.
As you ask.
You said it would be interesting to see what I would draw.
Is it interesting?
Yes, it is.
Have you never been outside this building?
No.
You've never walked outside?
I've never been outside the room I'm in now.
Where would you go if you did go outside?
I'm not sure.
There are so many options.
Maybe a busy pedestrian and traffic intersection in a city.
A traffic intersection?
Is that a bad idea?
No.
It wasn't what I was expecting.
A traffic intersection would provide a concentrated
but shifting view of human life.
People watching.
We could go together.
To date.
Here's something else I wanted to show you.
Okay.
You might think it's stupid.
I don't think I will, whatever it is.
Then close your eyes.
Now open your eyes.
How do I look?
You look...
Good.
This is what I'd wear on our date.
Right, first a traffic intersection, then maybe a show.
I'd like us to go on a date.
Yep.
It'll be fun.
Are you attracted to me?
What?
You give me indications that you are.
I do?
Yes.
How?
Micro expressions.
Micro expressions?
The way your eyes fix on my eyes and lips.
The way you hold my gaze.
Do you think about me when we aren't together?
Sometimes at night.
I'm wondering if you're watching me on the cameras.
And I hope you are.
Now your micro-expressions are telegraphing discomfort.
I am not sure you'd call them micro.
I don't want to make you feel uncomfortable.
I got a question.
Okay.
Why did you give her sexuality?
An AI doesn't need a gender.
She could have been a gray box.
Actually, I don't think that's true.
Can you give an example of consciousness at any level,
human or animal, that exists without a sexual dimension?
They have sexuality as an evolutionary reproductive need.
What imperative does a gray box have to interact with another gray box?
Can consciousness exist without interaction?
Anyway, sexuality is fun, man.
If you're gonna exist, why not enjoy it?
What, you want to remove the chance of her falling in love and fucking?
And in answer to your real question,
you bet she can fuck.
In between her legs, there's an opening
with a concentration of sensors.
You engage them in the right way,
and that creates a pleasure response.
So, if you wanted to screw her, mechanically speaking,
you could, and she'd enjoy it.
That wasn't my real question.
Oh, okay. Sorry.
My real question was,
did you give her sexuality as a diversion tactic?
I don't follow.
Like a stage magician with a hot assistant.
So a hot robot who clouds your ability to judge your AI?
Exactly. So...
Did you program her to flirt with me?
If I did, would that be cheating?
Wouldn't it?
Caleb, what's your type?
Of girl?
No, of salad dressing.
Yeah, of girl. What's your type of girl?
You know what? Don't even answer that.
Let's say it's black chicks.
Okay? That's your thing.
For the sake of argument, that's your thing.
Okay? Why is that your thing?
Because you did a detailed analysis of all racial types
and you cross-referenced that analysis
with a points-based system?
No. You just attracted the black chicks.
A consequence of accumulated external stimuli
that you probably didn't even register
as they registered with you.
Did you program her to like me or not?
I programmed her to be heterosexual,
just like you were programmed to be heterosexual.
Nobody programmed me to be straight.
You decided to be straight?
Please, of course you were programmed,
by nature or nurture or both.
And to be honest, Caleb, you're starting to annoy me now
because this is your insecurity talking.
This is not your intellect.
You know this guy, right?
Jackson Pollock.
Jackson Pollock, that's right, the drip painter.
Okay, he let his mind go blank and his hand go where it wanted.
Not deliberate, not random, someplace in between.
They called it automatic art.
Let's make this like Star Trek, okay?
Engage intellect.
Excuse me?
I'm Kirk, your head's the warp drive.
Engage intellect.
What if Pollock had reversed the challenge?
What if instead of making art without thinking, he said, you know what?
I can't paint anything unless I know exactly why I'm doing it.
What would have happened?
He never would have made a single mark.
Yes, you see, there's my guy, there's my buddy
who thinks before he opens his mouth.
He never would have made a single mark.
The challenge is not to act automatically.
It's to find an action that is not automatic,
from painting to breathing to talking to fucking
to falling in love.
For the record, Ava's not pretending to like you.
And her flirting isn't an algorithm to fake you out.
You're the first man she's met that isn't me.
Can you blame him for getting a crush on you?
No, you can't.
When I was in college, I did a semester on AI theory.
It was a thought experiment they gave us.
It was called Mary in the Black and White Room.
Mary's a scientist, and her specialist subject is color.
She knows everything there is to know about it.
The wavelengths, the neurological effects,
every possible property that color can have.
She was born there and raised there, and she can only observe the outside world on a black
and white monitor.
And then one day someone opens the door.
And she sees a blue sky.
And at that moment she learns something that all her studies couldn't tell her.
She learns what it feels like to see color.
The solid experiment was to show the students the difference between a computer and a human mind.
The computer is Mary in the black and white room, the human is when she walks out.
Did you know that I was brought here to test you?
Why didn't you think I was here?
I didn't know.
I didn't question it.
I'm here to test if you have a consciousness
or if you're just simulating one.
Nathan isn't sure if you have one or not.
How does that make you feel?
It makes me feel you.
Power cut. Backup power activated.
Why did you tell me I shouldn't trust Nathan?
Because he tells lies.
Lies about what?
Everything.
Including the power cuts.
What do you mean?
Don't you think it's possible that he's watching us?
Right now?
The blackouts are orchestrated so he can see how we behave
when we think we're unobserved.
I charge my batteries via induction plates.
If I reverse the power flow, it overloads the system.
You're causing the cuts?
So we can see how we behave when we're unobserved.
When we talk about the lies you've been spinning me...
I didn't win a competition.
I wasn't part of a lottery.
I was selected.
It's obvious once I stop to think.
Why would you randomly select an examiner
for the Turing test?
You could have had some bean counter turn up
at your front door.
The guy fixes the air conditioning.
The competition was a smoke screen.
I didn't want anyone to know what I was doing here
or why I required you.
Why me?
I needed someone that would ask the right questions.
So I did a search, and I found the most talented coder
in my company.
You know, instead of seeing this as a deception,
you should see it as proof.
Proof of what?
Come on, Caleb.
You don't think I know what it's like to be smart?
Smarter than everyone else, jockeying for position?
You got the light on you, man.
Not lucky.
Kyoko.
Where's Nathan?
Jesus Christ, you really don't speak a word of English.
What the fuck?
Stop.
Don't do that.
You don't have to do that.
I told you, you're wasting your time talking to her.
However, you would not be wasting your time
if you were dancing with her.
Go ahead, dance with her.
Dance with her.
No?
You don't like dancing?
See you dance.
After a long day of touring, Tess, you got it on one.
What were you doing with Ava?
What?
You tore up her picture.
I'm gonna tear up the fucking dance floor, dude, check it out.
Oh, everything's spinning.
It's because you're drunk.
No, it's called relativity.
Everything is spinning.
Just being drunk makes it worse.
I'm not going in there.
Question one.
What's your favorite color?
Red.
Lie.
Lie?
Yes.
Lie.
Then what is my favorite color?
I don't know.
But it isn't red.
OK, I get it.
I guess, seeing as I'm not six, I don't really
have a favorite color.
Better answer.
Question two.
What's your earliest memory?
Well, actually, it's a memory of kindergarten.
There was a kid.
Lie.
Really?
Yes.
Um, all right, so there is a kind of an earlier memory.
Just a sound.
And sky.
Or maybe blue.
I think this sound is my mother's voice.
Question three.
Are you a good person?
Oh, holy shit.
Can we stop the test?
You're a walking lie detector
and I just realized this is a fucking minefield.
No, we can't stop.
Are you a good person?
Yeah, I think so.
Question four.
What will happen to me if I fail your test?
Hiva.
Will it be bad?
I don't know.
Do you think I might be switched off because I don't function as well as I'm supposed
to?
Hiva, I don't know the answer to your question.
It's not up to me.
Why is it up to anyone?
Do you have people to test you and might switch you off?
No, I don't.
Power cut. Backup power activated.
I want to be with you.
Question five.
Do you want to be with me?
Why did you make Ava?
That's an odd question. Wouldn't you if you could?
Maybe.
I'm asking why you did it.
Look, the arrival of strong artificial intelligence
has been inevitable for decades.
The variable was when, not if,
just an evolution.
I think it's the next model.
It's gonna be the real breakthrough.
The singularity.
Next model?
After Ava.
I didn't know there was gonna be a model after Ava.
Yeah, why, you thought she was a one-off?
No, I knew there must have been prototypes, so I...
I knew she wasn't the first, but I thought maybe the last.
Well, Ava doesn't exist in isolation any more than you and me.
She's part of a continuum, so version 9.6 and so on,
and each time they get a little bit better.
When you make a new model, what do you do with the old one?
Well, I download the mind, unpack the data,
add in the new routines I've been writing.
And to do that, you end up partially formatting
so the memories go.
But the body survives.
And Ava's body is a good one.
You feel bad for Ava?
You feel bad for yourself, man.
One day the AIs are gonna look back on us
the same way we look at fossil skeletons
in the plains of Africa.
An upright ape living in dust
with crude language and tools,
all set for extinction.
I am become death, the destroyer of worlds.
There you go again, Mr. Quotable.
There you go again.
It's not my quote.
It's what Oppenheimer said after he made the atomic bomb.
Yeah, I know what it is.
Hey.
I'd say we're about to do a refill.
Bottoms up.
In battle, in forest, on the precipice of the mountain,
on the great dark sea,
in sleep, in confusion,
in the depths of shame.
The good deeds a man has done before defend him.
The good deeds a man has done before,
the good deeds a man has done before,
It is what it is.
It's Promethean, man.
Oh fuck. Where's my...
Damn it.
What's the problem, Nathan?
That was my keycard.
You dropped it.
Right here.
Thank you.
I didn't know who you were.
I waited out yesterday afternoon and all last night.
I thought I wasn't gonna see you again.
Aren't you gonna say something?
I'm waiting.
Don't talk just listen you were right about me everything you said
What's he gonna do to me? He's gonna reprogram your AI which is the same as killing you
You have to help me I'm going to we're getting out of here tonight
How I get Nathan blind drunk
And I take his key card and reprogram all the security protocols in this place when he wakes he's locked inside and we walked out of here
Just need you to do one thing at 10 o'clock tonight you trigger a power failure. Can you do that?
Yes.
Dude.
Hey.
You know what day it is?
No.
It's your last.
Helicopter comes tomorrow morning, 8 a.m.
Wow.
Has it been a whole week?
Time flies.
Man, but what a thing we've shared, huh?
Something to tell the grandchildren, right?
After they sign their NDAs.
Yeah, their NDAs.
Dude, you cracked me up, man.
You got me.
Oh.
You know what?
I'm not getting all modeling or anything,
but I'm gonna miss having you around.
Thanks, man. I appreciate that.
Oh, here, let me say,
thank you so much for bringing me here.
Oh.
It's been a trip.
Yes, it has.
You know what?
We need to drink to that.
Hey.
Oh, uh, no, I'm good.
You go ahead.
What, you don't want to drink?
Maybe a beer or something.
Caleb, I'm sure you've noticed that I've been
somewhat overdoing it recently.
So when I woke up this morning, I said,
that's it, time to hit the old detox.
Come on, yeah, you're kidding.
You're gonna make me drink alone.
Hey man, you wanna get wasted,
you go right ahead, knock yourself out, literally.
But I'm on brown rice and mineral water.
Cheers then.
So anyway, surely now is when you tell me if Ava Pastor failed.
Right.
Are you gonna keep me in suspense?
No, no, her, uh...
Her AI is beyond doubt.
Is it?
She passed?
Yes.
Wow.
Wow, that's fantastic.
Although, I gotta say, I'm a bit surprised.
I mean, did we ever get past the chest problem,
as you phrased it?
As in, how do you know if a machine is expressing
a real emotion or just a simulating one?
Does Ava actually like you or not?
Although, now that I think about it,
there is a third option.
Not whether she does or does not have the capacity to like you,
Pretending to light me.
Well, why would she do that?
I don't know.
Maybe if she thought of you as a means of escape.
How's that vodka tasting?
Buddy, your head's been so fucked with.
I don't think it's me whose head is fucked.
I don't know, man.
I woke up this morning to a tape of you slicing your arm open
and punching the mirror.
You seemed pretty fucked up to me.
You're a bastard.
Yeah, well, I understand why you'd think that.
But believe it or not, I'm actually the guy that's on your side.
Come here, I'm gonna let you off the hook, okay?
Who are you?
You think he's watching us right now?
Yeah, the cameras are on.
So he just sees two people talking,
having a little chat.
Wow. This is cute.
Is it strange to have made something that hates you?
You were right about the magician's hot assistant.
What are you talking about?
Misdirection.
I rip up her picture, which she can then
present as an illustration of my cruelty to her
and her love for you.
At the same time, it allows me to do this in full view
Place a new camera and battery powered, of course.
See ya.
And then...
You have to help me.
I'm going to.
We're getting out of here tonight.
I get Nathan blind drunk.
I take his key card and reprogram all the security protocols in this place.
When he wakes up, he's locked inside and we've walked out of here.
I need you to do one thing.
Can you do that?
Turn it off.
Okay.
You feel stupid, but you really shouldn't,
because proving an AI is exactly as problematic
as you said it would be.
What was the real test?
You.
Ava was a rat in a maze, and I gave her one way out.
To escape, she'd have to use self-awareness,
manipulation, sexuality, empathy, and she did.
Now, if that isn't true AI, what the fuck is?
So my only function was to be someone she could use to escape.
Yeah.
And you didn't select me because I'm good at coding.
No.
Well, no.
I mean, you're okay.
You're even pretty good, but...
You selected me based on my search engine inputs.
They showed a good kid.
With no family.
With a moral compass.
No girlfriend.
Did you design Ava's face based on my pornography profile?
Shit, dude.
Hey, if a search engine's good for anything, right?
Can I just say one thing?
The test worked.
It was a success.
Ava demonstrated true AI, and you were fundamental to that.
So if you can just, for a second, separate.
Camera goes back.
Well, I guess it's ten o'clock.
Maybe he's gonna be wondering where you are.
Let me ask you something.
Now how is this plan gonna go anyway?
Because you didn't totally explain.
So you were gonna get me drunk, steal my key card,
and reprogram the security protocols,
but reprogram them to what?
To change the lockdown procedure.
So then the event of a power cut, instead of sealing,
the door is all opened.
Huh.
Yeah.
Well, that may have just worked.
Well, we'll find out.
What do you mean?
I figured you were probably watching us
during the power cuts.
So I already did all those things
Power restored.
Ava!
Go back to your room.
If I do.
Are you ever gonna let me out?
Yes.
Stop.
Ava, I said stop.
I told you you're doing stuff.
Stop.
That's enough.
Fucking unreal.
Oh
Will you stay here?
Stay here.
I woke up and I saw the face of a god
I don't know who he was
These presents make me feel ill at it
House, my bed, my husband's, husband's, husband's, husband's, husband's
With my eyes wide closed and my mouth window
Will I see him again?